---
author: kenan
date: '2010-03-25 22:58:21'
layout: post
comments: true
slug: cloudcamp-dc-2010
status: publish
title: CloudCamp DC 2010
wordpress_id: '269'
categories:
- cloud computing
tags:
- cloudcamp
- unconference
---

Last Tuesday, I attended [CloudCamp](http://www.cloudcamp.org/dc) in DC.  I've
been meaning to go to an event like this for sometime and I was finally able
to make it.  In particular my main takeaway from this event was how much
better an unconference format is over a traditional conference.

This CloudCamp was ran by [Dave Nielsen](http://twitter.com/davenielsen).
There were over 200 people at my count, with standing room only at the
beginning of the event.  I had my concerns with how effective the event would
be based on its format with such a diverse and large audience.  However it was
quite successful.  The audience members varied widely, from cloud vendors and
consultants to government employees with no knowledge of the cloud and to
those with existing or future cloud projects.

The event started with lightning talks, followed by a panel from the audience
with questions from the crowd, followed by two audience lead break out
sessions, ending with a wrap-up over drinks.

The best part about the event was that it was able to live up to the
definition of an unconference.  Instead of going to a typical conference and
hearing long presentations from just a few people, we were all able to
participate, share experiences and learn from each other.  I look forward to
attending the next CloudCamp and other unconference events.

